[Music]
you
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
good afternoon to see you all here today
appropriately socially distanced those
of you who don't know to my right is
melissa de rosa secretary to the
governor to my left is robert mihika
director of the budget always happy
always smiling
today is Sunday
it's beautiful day in New York City
Sunday for me is a day of reflection to
do a little reflecting today is day 64
since we closed down New York only 64
days feels like a lifetime but only 64
days today's numbers the total
hospitalization rate is down and that is
good news for all concerned
nine thousand seven hundred and eighty
six below ten thousand which is a big
deal for us you have to go back to like
May eighteenth and nineteenth do you see
where to get near that number the March
up sorry the number of total
hospitalizations again is down the
number of intubations is down and that's
really good news because intubation is
generally bad news the number of new
cases is 789 that's good news
we were hovering at about 900 1000 that
maybe just a reporting anomaly because
this is over the weekend and the weekend
reporting tends to be a little different
and remember this reporting system we
just put in place this never happened
before where hospitals were reporting on
a daily basis so and hospitals have a
lot going on so I wouldn't bet the farm
on any of these specific one-day numbers
but the overall trend is good the number
that is the most important number that
we look at which is still
tremendously distressing is the number
of deaths 280 and you can see that that
number has not moved
dramatically in a relatively long period
of time but the overall direction is
good even though it's very painful I
think it's important that we take a
moment and learn the lessons of what
we've been going through this has been
unprecedented what we've been doing for
the past 64 days this was all an urgent
situation this was all hurry up we had
to quickly figure out a plan quickly
enact the plan but now we're a couple of
months into it and I think
simultaneously we should be learning the
lessons of what we just went through
people talk about this like it's going
to come and go and so once in a lifetime
I don't know that it's a once in a
lifetime and I don't know that it's
going to come and go there are people
now talking about a second wave they're
talking about a possible mutation of the
virus so caution would suggest that as
we go through this we learn at the same
time to make sure if we have to go
through this again or if this is a
prolonged situation that we are learning
from what we're implementing Edmund
Burke great Irish philosopher those who
don't know history are doomed to repeat
it wise words the macro questions bigger
than just New York questions bigger than
the governor's questions what happens in
China you know people are talking about
it where did this virus start in China
how did it start how did we not know
what should China have told us above my
paygrade but important questions how did
the virus get from China to the United
States and we assumed it got on a plane
from China and flew to the United States
that was the first thinking when this
started now it appears that that's not
so
as we're going through this what could
we have done differently more
importantly what should we do
differently if this is a prolonged
situation or if there is a next time and
again caution I would assume there's a
next time anyone who sits back and says
well this is the only public health
threat that we're going to face it's not
the case we're seeing increasing threats
all across the board environmental
threats mother nature natural threats
threats from emergency weather that
we've never seen before
and if you look back as far back as 1918
when they had the flu pandemic that
people talked about it took ten months
it came in three different waves and the
second wave was worse than the first
wave so even if you put aside all the
modern-day challenges when this happened
in 1918 it came in three different waves
so let's be prepared and intelligent
some of the lessons to learn the CDC did
a fascinating report that have put out
on May 1 which starts to take a deep
look at what happened and I think
there's a lot of important information
in that and it pointed to something that
we've been looking at here in New York
the report says that when they look at
the different strains of the virus in
the United States that there are
different strains and we were all
looking at the West Coast the West Coast
had cases well before the East Coast
remember maybe six weeks before the East
Coast those strains came from China what
we saw in the state of Washington what
we saw in California they came from
China flights from China land
predominantly on the west coast what we
have seen in New York didn't come from
China but actually is a different strain
of the virus
that came from Europe that's an
important fact to know and to study they
then said in the CDC report from
February you had 100 39,000 travelers
coming from Italy 1.74 million from
other European countries where the
outbreak was spreading wildly and
rapidly so everybody's looking at China
meanwhile the virus had traveled from
China to Europe was in Europe spreading
from Europe we had European travelers
coming they come to the East Coast they
land in New York they go to New Jersey
they go to Connecticut they're in the
New York area and we're all still
looking at China we were looking at
China and the travel ban on China may
have been helpful but the horse was
already out of the barn in China the
virus had left the virus was in Europe
and meanwhile we have European travelers
coming here and they're bringing the
virus which is now a different strain of
the virus to the East Coast this is from
that CDC report the deputy director
principal deputy director d'Alene travel
bans allowed for the virus to spread
throughout the United States and
contributed to the initiation
acceleration of domestic covered cases
in March extensive travel from Europe
once Europe was having outbreaks really
accelerated our importation in the rapid
spread the timing of our travel alert
should have been earlier that is a very
important fact and something we have to
learn from a person from the Grossman
School of Medicine knowing the number of
flights coming into New York from Italy
it was like watching a horrible train
wreck in slow motion this nobody was
watching Italy in Europe at the time
nobody was even thinking about it
today we must consider an outbreak
anywhere is an outbreak everywhere
AJ Parkinson and I think that's those
are words to remember going forward
outbreak in China in a number of days
it's going to be in Europe from Europe
it's going to come to the United States
assuming it didn't come from the United
States immediately from China another
lesson we have to learn is our hospital
system you know we talked about our
hospital system we don't really have a
public health system we have a hospital
system and we learned the hard way about
the capacity the equipment and the
management of our hospital system New
York City we have only 12 public
hospitals they are the Health and
Hospitals corporation they're run by New
York City but there's only 12 hospitals
in that public hospital system 44
hospitals are private hospitals they're
private institutions they're regulated
by the state but they are private
institutions they have their own area of
expertise they have their own base of
clientele and they're doing business as
individual entities like an individual
college right we don't we have a system
of colleges but each College is
individual it's the same thing with
hospitals each Hospital is an individual
entity Long Island we have four public
hospitals where we have 19 private
hospitals Westchester one public
hospital twelve private Rockland one
public to private Hudson Valley rest of
the state two public hospitals 87
private hospitals so really your
healthcare capacity in this state is all
in the hands of private hospitals right
you have a hundred and seventy-six
private hospitals in the state that's
the capacity but that means you have to
now rely on those private hospitals get
them all to be part of ones
system which day today that does not
happen they're operating themselves we
have again state regulations that say
this is how much you must operate but
they operate as individual entities in
the middle of this outbreak we had to go
back and do what we call the surgeon
flex management system where we said to
all 176 private hospitals we have to
work together and we have to manage this
system as one because hospitals are
getting overwhelmed maybe within the
public system they can share patients
and doctors and staff because you have
in New York City H and H s 12 hospitals
okay you can share among your 12 but we
have to get these 176 hospitals now all
to work together even with the public
hospital and hospitals were getting
overwhelmed so now you need a system to
share patient capacity share equipment
share ventilators share staff that had
never been done we did this all
basically on the fly and we put together
a pup de facto public health system but
it was a lot to do on the fly and we
need to institutionalize these lessons
part of what we have to learn is what
happened with the equipment I mean this
was just a situation that nobody
anticipated it happened all across the
country you couldn't get enough gowns
you couldn't get enough masks we're
going to put in a state requirement now
that every hospital has to have a 90 day
supply
stockpile their own stockpile of all the
PPE equipment that they could need for a
90 day supply at the rate of usage that
we saw with this covert virus so every
hospital has to have 90 day supply
period
we can't go through this day to day
moving masks all across the state right
this mad scramble that we were in and
still are in in many ways also as a
nation we can't go through this again
there was competition among states there
were competition among private entities
to get this equipment the federal
government was trying to buy it I'm
bidding on behalf of New York we're
bidding against other states Texas
California other states of course the
country are trying to buy the same masks
from the same vendor we've literally won
the bidding up the price I'm have people
in China I'm trying to contact people in
China who can figure out how to buy
masks from China
it was totally inefficient and
ineffective the state of Massachusetts
governor Baker was good enough to work
with Robert Kraft who had a personal
airplane that he sent to China to get
masks and Massachusetts was good enough
to give us some of the masks that a
private airplane picked up I mean this
is not this is not the way to deal with
this situation
right plus we just drove prices by our
own competition there was a limited
supply it was primarily in China and
then you have 50 states and all these
private entities and the federal
government trying to buy from China it
just it made no sense so let's fix that
New York State alone buy is about two
billion dollars of medical supplies this
year two billion dollars this year and
that's one state and that's us
purchasing from China and around the
world we're going to form a consortium
with our seven northeast partner states
which by about five billion dollars
worth of equipment and supplies that
will then increase our market power when
we're buying
and we will buy as a consortium price as
a consortium for PPE equipment
ventilators medical equipment whatever
we need to buy when you put all those
hospitals together all that public
health capacity together which will make
us more competitive in the international
marketplace and I believe it will save
taxpayers money I also believe it'll
help us actually get the equipment
because we have trouble still getting
the equipment and just buying the
equipment because these vendors on the
other side they're dealing with
countries they're dealing with the
federal government why should they do
business with one state right when they
can do business with an entire country
so this consortium I think will help us
get the equipment and get it at a better
price we will come up with a regional
identification of all the equipment we
need basically it's all standard
equipment a mask as a mask a gallon as a
gown let's come up with a total amount
that we need let's stop doing business
with vendors who we found to be
irresponsible and we found out the hard
way I can't tell you how many orders we
placed with vendors who were acting
basically as brokers who just started
businesses in the middle of this
pandemic because they saw an opportunity
so let's compare notes among the states
to find out who was good to do business
who was not good to do business with
let's see if we can't do the purchasing
in this country and let's see we if we
can't do the purchasing in this region
now why are we buying all this material
from China literally billions of dollars
of PPE and we'll do it in coordination
with the federal government but I want
to thank our neighbors our neighboring
states the word neighbor has a different
connotation you don't normally think of
the surrounding states as neighbors
you think of the person next door is a
neighbor but they are neighbors and
they've acted as neighbors I can't tell
you how supportive governor Murphy in
New Jersey and governor Lamont in
Connecticut and all the other governors
in our coalition have been literally
where you can pick up a phone and I can
say I need help with masks do you have
any extra masks do you have any extra
gowns can I borrow this can I borrow
that really the way you would deal with
a neighbor in an extraordinary
circumstance right you'd knock on the
door and say can I borrow this that's
how these states responded and it was
really a beautiful generous way of
operating that that was an inspiration
to me you know it wasn't I'll have my
lawyer call your lawyer it was whatever
I can do I'll do and in that spirit we
want to keep that coalition together and
we want to work together we're doing
regional planning now on the reopening
because every state is linked to every
other state we do something in New York
it affects New Jersey Connecticut
Delaware cetera people are very mobile
right now so it's a very important
relationship for us both productively
and from an efficiency point of view and
they have been great and they're joining
us today we have Governor Phil Murphy
with us governor Ned Lamont Governor Tom
wolf and Governor John Carney and we'll
start with our neighbor from the great
state of New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy
how are you governor Murphy beyond with
you I will be brief and say I echo
literally everything you've said
including the conference on the positive
in terms of what this is bit like the
deficiencies as well as the inspiration
with which was derived from our
arguments notably beginning with you and
all the other governors who are on the
poster today it has been truly an
inspiration so on behalf of the nine
in New Jersey if they thank you you know
we are we are in the state note we're
very power owned and bartering for
equipment PPE ventilators etc all doing
it someone said to me
couple days ago that balance can become
the two ventilators and so we're still
out there until the notion of
coordinating together as a region they
seemed normal to my defense signed me up
to sign new jersey uh we've moved in new
jersey alone we wanted to compete in the
past two months a line of business we
were to get beforehand it makes so much
sense it really looked forward again and
who is projected we coordinated actively
as we hold our government in out of a
regional council will be practice the
governor's on today is but also right on
massachusetts this is a perfect
extension of that relationship but i get
though one of your ear your comments
that not only should we not have to be
scouring the world for this chronology
made the USA and better yet made in our
states and so that's something that i
think we all want to strive for we're
doing that new jersey would you're out a
way to make this cup here and lastly and
you said this we've all gonna do within
our own four walls the regional
cooperation that are so much a great
example of that it's a brilliant
extension of our our ongoing cooperation
and then the last thing none of us is in
lieu of the partnership with government
as you rightfully point out we have all
of the above with what's good for our
own citizens with people the region and
worthlessly
a federal government every step of the
way thank you for having me on today
thank you
you government to each of our governors
in this group and really looking forward
to working with you it was a better day
to head thank you thank you very much
governor murphy i think the governor's
on this phone we've we've learned so
much about PPE over the past few weeks i
think we can go make gowns ourselves at
this point i think
I think people are now give us some
sewing machines I think we can we can
actually contribute so thank you very
much Phil god bless you and stay well
and anything you need we here thank you
we'll go now to governor Lamont great
state of Connecticut governor Lamont
thank you very much for being with us
and thank you for all you've done not
just for the people of Connecticut but
for the entire northeast good to be with
you Ned and and back at Jay Connecticut
we work and Edgar crumbles in a very
fluid April chorus and did you know we
got into this together we realized what
we had to do when it came to closing
down parts of our service economy we did
that together we're opening it up
together and that's the way it works
best and as you point out when it comes
to the purchasing look we can we've
learned something right we can wait for
the national stockpile we can wait for
that plane to land in China let's see
what we could do ourselves and as you
will point out we're much stronger
together I wouldn't mind having some of
that Newark purchasing power thanks for
sharing that with Connecticut going
forward and just as importantly um what
we can produce together as well I mean
Phil Murphy you got that amazing
pharmaceutical industry era New Jersey
help us out with the reagents and what
we can do in terms of uh gowns from
being produced in Rhode Island but we
can all do together to make sure that
this next round we control more of our
own destiny and to those who say you
know where you've been and you're
ordering up all the Christmas trees and
they're gonna arrive on December 26th I
say I'm afraid this is spilled West
beginning as you pointed out Governor
Cuomo and we're planning for the next
round of this if there isn't next round
making sure that we control our own
destiny going forward we do a much
better together thanks for getting us
together Andrew no my pleasure thank you
very very much governor on your right
look we're spending billions of dollars
why not buy from our own vendors in our
own region why are we buying from China
right I'm sure there are a lot of
businesses within our own states that if
they knew they had
that kind of purchasing that they were
looking at that they would either adopt
their businesses or grow their
businesses so we could buy from them a
plus you're right we would control our
own destiny rather than everyone trying
to figure out how to buy from China so
thank you very much governor Lamont god
bless you we're here thank you
let's go now to Governor wolf from
Pennsylvania good to be with you Tom
thank you very much for everything
you've been doing ad thank you for being
a great neighbor to the state of New
York and all your surrounding states
thank you good well thank you very much
for organizing this again a few weeks
ago we all got together and announced
that we were going to work together to
fight this this pandemic and we said
then that by working together we can do
a lot more than we can do with each of
us works on our own and I think today is
a specific example of that we can work
together to buy the things that we need
to allow our healthcare systems they
have a capacity it needs to fight this
this fight we need to help our hospitals
we need to help our health care workers
we need to help our long-term care
facilities our first responders all
those things and what you're doing here
and what we're doing is actually pulling
together to make sure we're doing all
those all those things and part of this
is testing it's not just the equipment
we really need to work together to build
the capacity to test it we're not going
to be able to give our citizens the
confidence they need to go back to work
they're not gonna have the confidence we
need them to have to go back to school
or look back to the store or to go back
to worship so all those things are
really important and by working together
we can we can pool our financial
resources it's really important as
significant as you pointed out governor
cuomo we can actually pull the
brainpower that exists the great
institutions in our in our areas and the
manufacturers who can make this stuff
all that we can pull together and and if
we can do that with with even with
something as difficult
this testing I think we're gonna make
sure that we get through this in the
best possible way so thank you for
pulling this together this is really
important that I'm proud to be with you
thank you thank you governor wolf and
you're so right look we are we're
creating in some ways new industries
right who ever heard of the testing
industry or the tracing industry or
these reagents that all these tests now
use even the demand on PPE I mean this
is a whole new world for all of us but
there's also an economic opportunity in
it and we should take advantage of it
because we need it and it's not going
away and it's going to be a major
industry going forward so let's make
sure it happens here but Tom thank you
very much thank you for all the help and
thank you for everything you're doing
really you're an inspiration to all of
us thank you Tom and we have Governor
John Carney with us from Delaware John
thank you very much for being with us
thank you for all the help thank you for
all the support thank you for the
friendship through all of this which is
also very important just the the
personal support is important as we're
going through this as colleagues thanks
for being with us today John yeah thank
you
Governor Cuomo for including that we're
in this coalition thank you for your
great leadership there in the state of
New York and particularly Metro New York
City with your colleague governor's on
either side of you you're an inspiration
frankly to all of us our hearts go out
to you as we see the numbers I was
really happy to see your numbers on the
chart at the beginning of your
conference today as they trend downward
that's really a very good and positive
thing and thanks for including us a
state of we like to refer to ourselves
as a stated neighbors there's just shy
of a million Delawareans here on the
southern end of this geographic
coalition on this side of i-95 in the
Amtrak Northeast Corridor which connects
all of us the two governor's at the
bottom of my screen are great partners
governor wolf and governor Murphy on
either side of the state of Delaware
really important our coordination and
collaboration
but this particular initiative with
respect to purchasing together PPE
and most importantly I think as governor
wolf mentioned a testing equipment in
capacity is so incredibly important for
our small state like ours to have the
purchasing power
Governor Cuomo of New York and New
Jersey and Connecticut and Pennsylvania
and Massachusetts and Rhode Island it's
just so incredibly important for us in
terms of getting the right pricing into
you know if we're going to head to head
with New York we're not gonna get we're
not gonna get it if we're a long
shoulder to shoulder with you and with
govern Murphy and governor wolf we've
got a good chance of getting a better
price and getting a product that we need
and I think through all this - the other
thing that was really interesting to me
in joining the coalition was just all
the assets that that the other states
can bring to the table in terms of
intellectual capacity your research
institutions your hospitals because we
know that they're gonna be breakthroughs
where we hope and testing and other
kinds of technology that help us as we
respond to this so I couldn't be happier
to to be part of this coalition a part
of your leadership team Governor Cuomo
with again my my two neighbors here in
the southern end of our coalition and to
each of you thanks for the great work
that you're providing to the citizens or
your state I tell people all the time
it's gonna be way harder the decisions
we have to make in reopening our
economies and phases than it was
shutting things down in my view just
because of the balance we need to strike
there and we will do that working
together and with the expertise that
this coalition and the purchasing power
in particular of this initiative will
bring to it to the state of Doerr so
thanks very much thank you thank you
John thank you governor Carney and
governor Carney is writing the it was
easier to shut down then it's going to
be to reopen shutting down was you walk
into the basement you take the power
switch and you just go from on to wall
right there was an urgent need it was an
emergency
reopening is more of an
artform and I thank my governor my
gubernatorial colleagues for doing this
together we also have governor Raimondo
from the state of Rhode Island and
governor Baker from the state of
Massachusetts who are part of the
coalition you know you go through
situations in life which are unexpected
okay you do your best and then you learn
from them and you grow and that's what
we're trying to do here today because
people expect more from government than
ever before I believe this has been
transformative for a generation think
about when was the last time government
was this vital I don't know maybe in a
war World War two when government had to
mobilize overnight but literally for
decades
you haven't seen government this
essential to human life literally and
government has to work and it has to
work well and it's not for the faint of
heart
now and people want government to
perform and government is making
decisions every day that affect their
lives and they deserve the best
government right they're paying for it
they deserve it and they deserve
competence and expertise and smarts and
for government to be doing creative
things and learning like we're doing
here today at the same time government
is working we're trying our best we're
working seven days a week 24 hours a day
we're doing a lot of good work a lot of
creative work but this is not just about
government you know it's too easy to
point fingers well this one has to do
that this one has to do that every
person has a part in this
every person has a part and driving
around New York City today and I was
here yesterday you know we are all a
very thankful
who our healthcare heroes our frontline
workers our essential workers you watch
television the world is nice commercials
thank everyone for what they did and we
should nurses doctors police officers
transit workers god bless them but if
you really want to say thank you make
their life easier by not getting sick
and not making someone else sick an
individual's role is act responsibly and
intelligently for yourself for your
family and for your community wear a
mask wear a mask I mean that's the basic
step right
socially distance if you can't socially
distance you're in New York City you're
gonna walk up next to a person wear a
mask okay it's not the most attractive
garment ever created so what well I
don't like you know it feels
uncomfortable unnatural so what you want
to honor the healthcare workers and the
people who literally gave their lives in
some cases for what they did here act
responsibly wear a mask I know the
weather's getting warmer
I know people want to get out of the
house fine wear a mask and socially
distance that is your social
responsibility in the middle of this
overall pandemic and when we talk about
New Yorkers together and the spirit of
unity and how people are helping one
another and how tough we are and how
smart we are and how disciplined we are
and how we love one another show it you
know how you show love by wearing a mask
please questions about a different
strain
from Europe is it more deadly strain do
you think means they're reasonable even
is that by the death toll was so much
harder here than in other places you
know I don't know some have said that
it's it's not my field Zack but they say
they're two totally different strains
I've heard from some medical
professionals that our stream was
actually more virulent than the strain
that came from China that whatever the
mutation was that happened in Europe
made our strain more virulent once it
comes to New York and again nobody was
anticipating this European connection
you know people from Italy nobody was
saying watch out for those people from
Italy they were just walking through our
airports right we had the federal
officials at all our airports and they
were doing that screaming that they were
doing they were screening people from
China still nobody was screaming people
from Europe and the European travel ban
the full band didn't go into March or
something I admit March we didn't do a
full European travel ban so they were
coming
nobody was screening nobody was testing
nobody was looking nobody even knew to
look when they wherever they came in New
York nobody was on notice
you know nobody said watch for Italian
people from Italy watch for people from
Ireland and the UK nobody so it was just
we were totally unaware of it then
apparently it's a different strain then
once it gets to New York now you have
that density in New York right and
density is the enemy here and that New
York dense housing dense transportation
then sidewalks in that density it takes
off like a fire through dry grass and
then it spreads it's in New Jersey it's
in Connecticut that whole area but
especially since nobody know I mean
nobody knew right we were doing this
every day
did you nobody ever talked about
transmission through Europe
Dave Carlin cbs2 I know that I've been
asked
in your eyes you talk about the road to
recovery and reopening as being an art
form your fellow governor's feel the
same way how much of this is based on
some personal observations in the last
couple of days and gut instinct as
opposed to the numbers and benchmarks
you say are so important a good question
first follow the data I believe you can
do this as a science you know is it
science or is it art let's say it's a
combination but drive it as a science do
it by the numbers
you know we're calculating the spread of
the virus right that is a mathematical
equation on some levels and the more you
open the higher the rate of infection
will spread that is in arguable question
is how much does it spread how fast does
it spread and how fast is it spreading
compared to your healthcare capacity
that is a formula you can plug numbers
into that formula and that's what we're
doing that's the R naught that's the
rate of transmission we want to keep the
rate of transmission below 1.1 we're now
at about 0.7 so we have a margin of
error point seven to 1.1 over 1.1 you're
now an epidemic outbreak status so part
of it is there's a mathematical formula
and that's what we're trying to educate
our local partners about in local
government you want to talk about
reopening your region your city your
County etc when will the state reopen my
region well here's the formula plug the
numbers in and look at what the formula
says that's the science of it and with
all this political talk and all these
political opinions I like to stress the
science because it it belies the
politics and the emotion look at the
numbers look at the numbers the art form
is look I've been in the federal
government I've been in state government
that was
the Attorney General I did emergencies
in the federal government all across the
nation all across the world so you bring
and educated your word was gut instinct
you bring an educated gut to it I bring
an educated gut to it because I've gone
through this before but educated gut
plus stick to the science stick to the
numbers what does your gut tell you at
the moment
my gut says the weather is going to warm
the people are bored people want this
over they see the numbers going down
they can take false comfort oh it's
going down that means it's over no no
you never said it was over we said the
numbers are going down we said roughly a
thousand new people every day walk into
the hospitals oh no it's it's basically
over no well I hear other states are
reopening no we're not out of the woods
and we are this very dense environment
and you can see that virus pick up
dramatically and it is not going down
it's not it is going down there's no it
we are bringing it down right that
number was going like this the only
reason the numbers not going like this
is because New Yorkers grabbed that
projection curve with two hands and
pulled it down and that's why it went
like this
you go back to your old behavior that
number goes right back up and it's warm
and you want to get out of the house and
everybody's antsy and I haven't gotten a
paycheck and I'm worried about my job
I know but big caution sign to me let's
watch the numbers numbers are going down
but we are a very dense environment
we've had more cases we almost
overwhelmed the whole health care system
so caution moving forward and look how
people cannot wear masks that to me is
even disrespectful it's disrespectful
it's disrespectful to the
the doctors the people who have been
frontline workers the transit workers
you wear the mask not for yourself you
wear the mask for me it's a sign of
respect to other people and you make me
sick that's disrespectful I have to go
into the hospital I have to call an
ambulance that's an ambulance driver I
have to go into an emergency room that's
a nurse that's a doctor who has to put
on PPE that somebody has to buy and pay
for they have to risk being exposed to
the virus because you wouldn't wear a
mask because you wouldn't wear a mask
you put so many people at risk because
you didn't want to wear a mask
I think that's disrespectful by you it's
disrespectful of your relationship and
obligation to one another
yes we're all individuals we're
individuals who live in a community in
the middle of a global pandemic just be
responsible and show respect and I don't
think that's too much for each of us to
ask of one another that's a basic common
decency in this situation ideally if
you're protecting yourself and your
loved ones oh by the way if you're a
member of a vulnerable population the
ideal is to stay indoors there's no
doubt however you can't stay indoors
forever and the weather is nice and
[Music]
getting outside getting some exercise
getting fresh air is good staying
socially distance
and wearing a mask or basic precautions
that should keep you safe not as good as
thing in the house but should keep you
safe but that assumes people around you
are wearing masks people around you were
acting responsibly so it's not even a
situation that you can control yourself
right what happens to you is dependent
on what I do and how I act I don't wear
a mask I sneeze on a park bench you walk
up two minutes later and sit down on the
park bench oh by the way you walk up a
half an hour later maybe and sit on the
park bench and you put your hand down
and then you wipe your face now you have
a problem because of me that's why the
mask wearing and on the local law
enforcement I know the New York City I
know mayor de Blasio has made a real
effort I've said to all the local
government heads enforce it enforce it
because it's not only wrong a public
health risk it really is such a little
thing to ask of people at a time when
people are doing so much so much
I'm with the Transit workers yesterday
they're gonna train to Train
disinfecting getting on their hands and
knees and hazmat blowing disinfectant
under the seats over the seats on the
ceiling wiping it all down people doing
unprecedented work and you can't even
wear a mask we've said this from day one
right we're in in New York State and
we're also operating the state of
reality will you ever get 19 million
people in this state to comply because
you give them a summons no they will
comply because they know the facts and
because they choose and deem that it is
in
telogen and reasonable to comply and
that's how I've started this from day
one look I could have done a closed-down
order and New Yorkers could have said
that with no words they could have just
not complied with it right and then what
what I do run around give him summonses
it wouldn't work went through all the
facts explained why and then we closed
it down people complied it's going to be
the same with masks and personal
behavior this is a new level of personal
behavior now that we're asking people to
undertake and I think they will get it I
think it's not going to happen because
of law enforcement but law enforcement
has a role but I think they have to
understand it and they have to get it
and I think of New Yorkers you know the
best the best enforcers of social
behavior or other enforcer are the New
Yorkers right I think if New Yorkers get
it you walk down the street without a
mask I think other New Yorkers are going
to let you know and as long as they do
that within the bounds of the quorum I
don't think that is a bad thing
regarding PPE manufactured overseas and
would you say that it is time to maybe
rethink globalization policies in the
direction this country than going into
the last 30 years I don't I don't know
that you have to go to globalization
policy Zac the you're not going to
change the macroeconomic forces but I
think there is a lesson to learn and
what we're trying to actually deliver on
this is this is a V an emergency service
right in a snowstorm you have to be able
to get solved and you have to be able to
have snowplows right in a hurricane you
have to have pumps in a public health
emergency you have to have PPE I mean
nothing works unless there's step one is
you have to have the people eat
that we have to go to China for the PPE
I mean think about that you couldn't
even get it in this nation we were
started making our own in the state but
that's a national security issue to me
yeah you have to be able to get masks
and gowns and whatever medical equipment
you need so this nation can run a
healthcare system in the middle of an
emergency yeah yeah I forget the macro
and not economics just from a national
security point of view I think yes you
have to be able to do that you can't be
dependent on China to have the basic
equipment to save lives in the United
States that's what this came down to I
mean think about Robert Kraft god bless
him owns the New York New England
Patriots New England Patriots haven't
done New Yorkers a lot of favours over
the years great
but Robert Kraft has to send the private
plane to China to pick up masks from
Massachusetts that's how we handle a
global pandemic I have to call mr. Kraft
and say can you do me a favor governor
Baker as long as the plane is going
could you pick up some masks for me I
mean that's how that happened right it's
the two major states in the middle of a
pandemic Robert Kraft is sending a plane
you guys want to comment on anything no
I would just stack on your point before
when you asked about the higher cases in
New York versus the West Coast the
virulent freeland stream which as the
governor said there's sort of mixed
mixed reviews out there but it's
important to remember it's not just that
the triumphs of the travel ban here
didn't happen until I think it was March
16th after they did the first version
where they closed it down to most of
Europe and then the 16th was when it
went into effect including the UK
whereas they did the Asia travel ban at
the end of January early of February and
so those flights from Asia go to the
west coast the flights from Europe come
to New York and Newark but look at that
varies end of January you do the China
travel ban you don't do the UK travel
ban to the middle of March end of
January to the middle of March the virus
was not hanging out in China waiting for
you during that period of time January
he got on a plane went to Europe and
then spread in Europe and then from
January to mid-march was coming from
Europe right here there was this false
sense of security and that they the CDC
was doing testing so they were coming
back and saying there's no cases in New
York but the people that they were
testing they were testing a very select
few that were coming off of planes from
their hot spot designated regions and
then they were letting everybody else
come right through the front door
without doing temperature checks without
checking to see if they were
demonstrating any of the symptoms that
you would have and so I mean in
retrospect what did everyone think was
going
yeah according to the New York Times
report last week they think there were
10,000 700 cases here in February so
overnight look the subway service will
return when the pandemic ends you tell
me one dependent mackenz I'll tell you
when the subway service resumes but for
that
look we don't we don't really have a
choice in truth most of these issues we
don't have a choice you do what you have
to do we didn't have a choice whether or
not we bought PPE from China we don't
have a choice whether or not we
disinfect the trains I am so grateful to
the frontline workers who show up every
day you know think about what we did
here we had to explain to New Yorkers
how vicious this virus was so they would
actually honor the closed-down this is
what we were just talking about the next
sentence out of my mouth is yes it's
vicious we need to close down next
sentences but I need the essential
workers to come to work tomorrow morning
what you just said it was a vicious
virus I should say home but now the
essential workers have to come to work
yes because we need people to run the
buses and the trains and we need the
nurses and we need the doctors and we
need food on the shelves you want to see
things go bad in a hurry no food on the
shelves right no electric power you want
to see panic and anarchy you needed
those essential workers so god bless
them and we still need them but at a
minimum we're talking about respect wear
a mask they use public transit I'm not
going to ask them to come to work to get
on public transit unless we know the
public transit is safe and safe in this
case means clean
and we talk about the density as a
spreader yeah that's true but also
public transit if it's not clean can
spread right one of the surfaces that
the virus lives longest on is stainless
steel you don't throw those poles in a
subway car you have to clean the cars
and I'm very grateful to the frontline
workers for coming out they need the
public transit we owe it to them that
it's safe and it's clean and to do that
you have to close it down to one from
1:00 to 5:00 a.m. now 1:00 to 5:00 a.m.
first time it ever closed down yeah but
also 92% reduction in ridership so your
ridership is down to like 8 percent and
1:00 to 5:00 a.m. is the lowest period
of ridership so people will work
literally in the middle of the night to
clean the trains but it's the least for
the essential workers and for anyone you
know we have to be able to say we our
public transit system is safe and it is
clean and especially getting ready
planning to reopen you cannot do
anything without a public transit system
that people have confidence and knowing
that it is clean and they know how to
disinfect it and they've been
disinfecting it I think that's that's
vital to confidence in New York right
which is a big factor that we have to
put in the equation here just confidence
and comfort with the situation in New
York in the midst of this pandemic right
the multi-state consortium plan pre
confident the president Trump is still
moving ahead with his offer of the other
things the regions that you need that
promise of 2% of the population testing
or is the multi-state consortium because
look we're working with the federal
government whatever they can do to help
is great but this is also an ongoing
situation I don't want to sit here and
just say I'm gonna wait for the help for
help from the federal government
whatever help they give us is great but
it's also clear from the federal
government that it's up to governor's up
the governors up the governors so
whatever we can do on our own so we're
not reliant on anyone that's the best
thanks guys wear a mask in case you
didn't get the mess
you